Who are you?
I'm her dad.
Peyton: he loves his job.
It's just not fair to ask him
to give that up.
But I miss him
when he's away.
You were right. Dan.
We don't need a shrink to
identify this family's problem.
You just made it obvious.
I'm not his
only parent. Deb.
Why don't you ride
with the old man. Nathan?
Come on. Nathan.
Let the kid make up his own
mind. What do you say. son?
I need to connect more
with Lucas.
I thought you guys were
already doing that.
The making out thing is great.
but it only goes so far.
Dan: where do you get off
telling Nathan
he can quit the team?
I didn't tell him
he could quit.
He wanted to talk.
We talked.
I don't mind you playing
daddy to one of my offspring.
but leave the good one
alone.
You're the first really great
guy that I've ever dated.
And that really scares me
because I never
gave a rat's ass before.
I give a rat's ass
about you. too.
I'm done. I just thought you
should be the first to know.
Me?
Yeah. you wanted
my world. man.
It's all yours.
* I don't want to be anything
* other than what I've been
trying to be lately *
* all I have to do
is think of me *
* and I have peace of mind
* I don't want to be anything
* other than what I've been
trying to be lately *
* all I have to do
is think of me *
* and I have peace of mind
* I'm tired of looking 'round
* wondering what I gotta do
* or who I'm supposed to be
* I don't want to be anything
* other than me
hey. honey.
Hey. dad.
[ Grunts ]
What's going on
with the unabomber look?
I was going
for George Clooney.
Go further.
Ouch.
that's right. though.
You're not used to seeing me
like this.
See. when I'm on the job.
i usually let it grow.
Then I shave it off
right before I come home.
Kind of a ritual.
Well. just make sure you find
your razor day after tomorrow.
And after that. I'm gonna be
shaving a lot more often.
Okay.
Hey. Brooke.
hey. rake boy.
I see nobody uses
the doorbell still.
Papa Peyton. the scruffy
thing's working for you.
What are you guys up
to so early?
I don't know.
Peyton just asked --
you know what? You'll find out
when you get home.
Not even a little hint?
Mnh-mnh. not even.
I love you.
You better.
I love you. too. honey.
Bye.
So. what's the surprise?
I need your help
with something.
Come on.
[ Whistles ]
Damn. that's nice.
This your dad's?
Yeah. he hasn't driven it
in. like. a year. though.
Do you think
you can get it to run?
Of course he can.
And he's gonna look good
doing it. too.
in a tight little wife beater.
maybe some grease smudges.
I was thinking maybe you could
help me wash and wax it.
I'm glad to help.
I just want to do something
nice for him.
since he's coming home.
All right.
I'll go get my tools.
[ Doorbell rings ]
Surprise!
You answer the door
in your underwear?
Grandma. grandpa.
what are you guys doing here?
Royal. may. oh. um.
what a surprise.
Well. thanks
for the warm welcome.
I told you this ambush
was a bad idea.
He's dragging me
to another one --
nobody's dragging anybody
anywhere.
I told him that the only
way I'd go
is if we came by here
for Danny's birthday.
Oh. Dan's birthday.
of course.
[ Chuckles ] yeah.
Well. you gonna leave us
standing out here all morning
freezing our asses off?
Come on in.
Come on. Kiss gran.
Looks like you put on a few
there. Deb. Looks good on you.
Dan...
You remembered.
I'm touched.
I'm not here to wish you
a happy birthday.
but your parents are.
What?
They showed up at the house.
Apparently.
you never told them
that you're not living there.
[ Sighs ]
how'd they take it?
You think I told them?
I'm not gonna be on the
receiving end of that.
That's your job.
How long are they here?
Just tonight.
but it gets better.
Your mother is cooking you
a big birthday dinner.
Oh. perfect.
All right. so what are we
gonna do?
We are not going to do
anything.
You are going to go
to the house right now
and tell them
we're separated.
No. we're doing
the counseling.
We're gonna work this
thing out. right?
Isn't that the whole point?
It is.
Do you really want them
weighing in
on the state of our marriage?
Do you remember
when we told them
we weren't gonna have
any more kids?
How many times
did my dad call you?
Now you don't even have the
option of hanging up on them.
Go on. Dan.
Just say it.
We go through the motions
tonight.
Get it over with.
send them on their way.
Go back to working
on us.
Besides.
it might do some good
to try and remember what it's
like to be a normal family.
Fine. just for tonight.
Just for tonight.
[ Sighs ]
Good morning. sir.
Table or counter?
Actually. I'm looking
for Karen.
She's in Italy right now --
cooking school.
Good for her.
[ Chuckles ]
How's that boy of hers
doing?
Uh. Lucas is great.
She calls in every once
in a while.
Do you want me to leave
a message?
No. that's all right.
I'll just catch her the next
time I'm passing through.
Okay. can I tell her
who stopped by. Mr...
Just an old friend.
Well. it's not the battery.
It's probably the starter.
You can fix that. right?
[ Chuckles ] yeah. it
shouldn't be a problem.
[ Inhales deeply ]
Oh. it's an amazing car.
Mm. it's an amazing guy.
Oh. mm.
Is that what you got me
this thing for?
Uh-huh.
I was just getting
started.
Sadly. so was I.
What's wrong?
I'm just worried
about my dad.
All right.
i just checked online.
and now they're saying
it's a category 3 hurricane.
All right. and you already
checked the webcam. right?
Yeah. it's out.
Maybe he turned it off.
Anyway. aren't
dredging boats huge?
He wouldn't be
on the dredging boat.
He'd be on this little. tiny
transport headed back to shore.
and that's what worries me.
Okay. Peyton. just stop.
Don't do this to yourself.
All right?
Just because
he hasn't checked in
doesn't mean something's
happened.
It doesn't mean it hasn't.
either.
So. this. um. dinner thing is
gonna be pretty bad. huh?
Massacre.
My grandma's okay.
It's just my gramp
is pretty intense.
You've met my dad.
Just imagine
where he comes from.
Scary.
Yeah.
you should come tonight.
Maybe it'll make everybody
behave.
[ Laughs ]
I'll come
if you want me to.
No. I wasn't serious.
I wouldn't put you
through that.
I mean. if you're asking.
of course. my answer's yes.
Well. then. I'm asking.
Well. then. I'm coming.
Charcoal finish.
custom-leather package.
What you want
is a champagne interior.
I'm here to see
the manager.
Excuse me.
Hey. fella.
you ought to know
who you're doing
business with.
Is there a problem?
Well. you're buying from
Dan Scott. basketball legend.
Still holds the all-time
scoring record for Tree Hill.
Made all-state
his senior year.
No kidding?
My dad.
I figured.
You play college. too?
Would've. but he blew his
knee out in his freshman year.
He got robbed.
Would have been one
of the greats.
Dad. Mr. Miller's really not
interested.
I tell you what.
meet me in my office. okay?
I'll be right in.
Champagne interior. right?
All right.
What? somebody's got to brag
on you.
And you're not gonna close
that sale
without your old man's help.
You know that. don't you?
You always were
my biggest promoter.
[ Chuckles ]
yeah.
Hey. still in shape.
Good for you.
Well. you're home.
Listen. I called Nathan.
I told him not to tell dad
he's not going to practice.
You mean
that he quit the team?
You know what I mean.
I also told Keith
to avoid the subject.
Any other lies I should
remember to tell?
I'm trying to protect our son
from my father. okay?
You don't even see
the irony. do you?
Mom. you look beautiful
as ever.
God bless you for a liar.
I compliment you.
you call me a liar.
You look tired.
Hey. son. what's the deal?
No more Charlotte hornets?
New Orleans can have 'em.
I don't think they
have the playoffs --
no sports talk.
[ Doorbell rings ]
oh. come on.
[ Clears throat ]
Oh. I just became head
of the table. didn't I?
Mom.
You look great.
Well. look what the cat
dragged in.
It's good to see you.
too. dad.
Uh-huh.
Happy birthday. Danny.
Yeah. thanks.
Come on. have a seat.
Dinner is almost ready.
Danny. will you pour
some wine. please?
I'm on it.
Amen to that.
Listen. mom. we're gonna
need another place setting.
I invited a guest.
A date?
Oh. my goodness.
Grandpa. grandma.
this is Haley.
Oh. Haley.
nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you. too.
Nathan. you're looking more
and more like your old man
every day.
We all know where he gets
his good looks. don't we?
You sit right here
next to me. honey.
[ Doorbell rings ]
may: I'll get it.
Haley: everything
looks so nice.
Oh. my goodness.
Whitey.
Good evening. everybody.
Sorry I'm late.
Glad you came?
Yeah.
[ Breathing heavily ]
All right. try it again.
[ Engine turns over ]
We got power.
Whoo!
Peyton. come check it out.
What is it?
I just got a phone call.
Um. the storm.
My dad's transport
is missing.
There were three guys on it.
They recovered a body.
What did they tell you?
I have to go see
if it's him.
No. she'd freak out.
I'd rather not upset her.
Besides. it's not
gonna be my dad.
Of course it's not.
Let's go ahead
and get this over with.
We have a 4-hour drive
ahead of us.
A 4-hour drive
into a storm?
The storm's passing through.
By the time we get there.
it should be gone.
Okay. wait a second.
Shouldn't somebody stay here
by the phone
in case your dad calls?
I will.
You go with Peyton.
You sure?
You're good in a crisis.
not that there's gonna be one.
But I would end up
falling apart.
and you'd end up
taking care of me.
which is not the point.
So...i love you.
It's gonna be okay.
You're the best.
I'll call you guys
if I hear anything.
Royal: how's the team doing
this year. whitey?
Oh. we're --
still undefeated. actually.
Dad. you still rooting
for the magic these days?
Please. no talk of sports
until after dinner. okay?
Good idea. mom.
I'm sorry.
Well. Nathan. what are you
averaging these days?
You know. your dad
had 27 1/2 a game.
You beat that yet?
Royal. we just --
I'm asking the boy
a question. may.
[ Sighs ]
Uh. maybe you should ask
the old man.
Uh. 24 points a game.
i think. isn't it?
So. 24 a game. huh?
You're gonna have to get that up
if you're gonna beat
the old man.
Yeah. your dad's star
would have risen through
the roof at Carolina
if it hadn't been
for that damn knee of his.
How are your knees?
No worries.
He's got great knees.
[ Laughter ]
Uh-huh.
Of course. now. Danny takes
after his old man.
never let adversity stop him.
Too bad Keith takes after his
mother's side of the family.
Lucky for him.
I'd drink to that.
but I got to get a refill.
Yeah.
Well. I should see
about the cake.
Mm. I'll go do that.
Mrs. Scott.
Want to come help?
Yeah. yeah.
the cake. right.
I warned you
it was gonna be intense.
Ohh. insane
is more like it.
You know.
there's a door right there.
We could sneak out.
Nobody'd even notice.
Tempting.
Um. so. how often do your
grandparents come to town?
A couple times a year.
Why?
Haley. you've got that look.
What look?
The look you get when you
want to tell me something.
but you don't really
want to tell me.
No. I don't. and you shouldn't
know that look yet.
What is it?
Your grandfather came
by the café today.
and he asked for Karen.
He did?
I just got the feeling
like they've been keeping
in touch.
Does Lucas know him?
No. they've never even met.
but your grandfather
asked about him.
That doesn't make any sense.
My grandpa acts like my dad's
the second coming.
Why would he visit Karen?
I don't know.
I don't want to start anything.
I'm just telling you.
You know what?
My family's so screwed up.
nothing new would make
a difference right now.
Don't worry about it.
You warm enough?
I'm okay.
I should probably get the
heater fixed in here. huh?
[ Laughs ]
I could have Keith
take a look at it for you.
He's really good
at that stuff.
You want me to stop
and get some coffees?
I'm fine.
Thanks for doing this
for me. Luke.
That's what friends
are for. right?
Yeah.
Now what?
What's going on?
The bridge is up
'cause of the storm.
It'll be open
in the morning.
We have an emergency.
We have to get across
the bridge.
I'm sorry. miss.
but it's not safe.
Is there another way
through?
Only the ferries.
but the channel's too rough.
so they're not running.
What are we supposed to do?
Hopefully we'll be able to lower
the bridge in the morning.
6:00 A.M.
There's a motel right
down the road.
Might want to grab yourself
a room before they're all gone.
[ Sighs ]
[ Blowing ]
There you go.
So. Nate. how's your game
this year?
May: here we go again.
Just cover your ears. may.
I just want to know how my
grandson's doing on the team.
I already told you. dad.
No. you didn't.
You didn't tell me Jack.
Every time I mention it.
you change the damn subject.
Will somebody around here
tell me what's going on?
Nathan? whitey? Anybody?
Nathan. I think
you better take this one.
I quit the team.
all right?
You quit the -- what do you
mean you quit the team?
He didn't quit the team.
He's just taking some time off.
No. he's not.
Please stop lying. Dan.
Were you ever gonna
tell me this?
That's a hell of a thing
to keep to yourself.
Yeah. you're one to talk.
What's that supposed
to mean?
I know you visit Karen
at the café. all right?
What's that about?
That's none
of your damn business.
I guess somebody's got
a big mouth.
Will you shut up. grandpa?
Don't you talk to me
like that!
Back off. royal.
I've had enough of your crap.
Nathan is not the problem.
Would someone
please explain?
Dan has been riding Nathan
for the past six years
about that damn game.
Deb. stop.
Riding him so hard
that Nathan took drugs
so he could measure up.
until he had to be rushed
to the hospital.
He could have died because
of this insane pressure
to put a ball through a hoop.
But none of that is my son's
fault. royal.
It's your son's.
Danny. you of all people --
how dare you.
You know
how much you hated it
when your daddy bullied you
to be better.
I never bullied him!
And when you wanted a way out.
i gave you one.
All these years. I protected
you. I lied for you.
And now you're doing
the same thing to your son?
What lie?
What are you talking about?
In college...
His knee injury --
it wasn't permanent.
Danny quit.
and I helped him.
It's not like that. dad.
Oh. stop it. Dan.
It's time the truth
came out.
Will somebody tell me what
in the hell is going on here?
You were on the road
when Danny hurt his knee.
so we lied.
You told me it was
a degenerative knee condition.
You looked me in the eye.
and you told me that.
Don't you see. royal?
He was never gonna be the star
that you wanted him to be.
You just couldn't see that.
The boy had two choices --
to fail in front of you
or to quit.
Either way. he lost.
So you just quit
without even being man enough
to own up to it.
There's more to the story. dad.
You don't know the whole story.
Me too. Come on. Haley.
I'll take you home.
Thanks for dinner.
Well. I can show
myself out.
Thank you. may.
Deb.
Happy birthday. Danny.
Danny. don't --
why?
[ Clears throat ]
Well. I guess
I'll do the dishes.
All right. let's just try
to get some sleep.
Then we'll be at the bridge
as soon as it opens up.
What did he say.
6:00 A.M.?
We'll be there at 5:00.
[ Laughing ]
What?
I'm in a hurry to find out
if my dad is dead.
It's just kind of surreal.
Yeah. it's pretty messed up.
You know how in dreams
you're always trying to get
to someplace you need to be.
but you never really
get there?
Yeah.
I wish I could wake up.
Maybe we should try
to get some sleep.
You think you can?
Okay.
I'll just sleep on the floor.
all right?
Don't be stupid.
Look. Peyton...
I just wish there was something
i could do or say
to help you through this.
You already have.
Thanks. Lucas.
[ Sighs deeply ]
Good night.
I'm sorry
you had to see that.
It's okay.
It helped me understand you.
[ Sighs ]
You know. growing up.
there were certain things that
were just carved into stone.
And the main one was that
Dan Scott would have been a pro
if he didn't blow out
his knee.
So. all this time.
he's just been feeding me
this line of crap
about how great
he would have been.
And how I'd never be
as good as him.
Bastard.
At least you know
the truth. though. right?
[ Scoffs ]
I just don't know
what to do with it.
Okay.
Good night.
I'm here
if you need me. okay?
All right.
Hey. remember how I said
my family's so screwed up.
nothing new would make
a difference?
Yeah.
I was wrong.
[ Footsteps ]
You want to hear
my side of it?
Why should I believe it?
This whole time
you've been riding me.
you've known exactly
the way I feel.
Now that that's in my head.
it just makes it
that much worse.
I was a great player.
Nathan. in high school.
But when I got to Carolina.
I knew it wasn't gonna be
the same.
My dad couldn't see it.
though.
It was hard
on your grandmother. too.
So. when I got hurt.
she came to me and pleaded
with me to walk away.
She said it would be better
for all of us.
So I did.
Worst decision of my life.
It felt good to get out
from underneath my father.
And then after a while.
I realized I wasn't playing
for him at all.
The game meant the world
to me.
I just never took the time
to stand back and realize that.
So I tried
to get back into it.
Rehab. running. weights.
It was too late.
My knee never responded.
It was over for me.
So you think that
somehow gives you the right
to hammer me all the time?
I know I push you.
I know I'm hard on you.
But I'm trying to save you
of a life of regret.
Trust me.
you don't want it.
So then. you make me feel
like crap all the time.
It really helps. dad.
I could have been stronger.
But I push you
so you will be.
so things will end up better
for you than they did for me.
Then you're safe. dad.
There's no way I'm ever
gonna end up like you.
Hey.
What you got?
[ Sighs ]
"To my heart. love. dad."
He gave it to me
on my last birthday.
What if it's him. Lucas?
It's not gonna be.
'Cause I don't know what --
it's gonna be okay.
I just keep trying to picture
walking into that room
and seeing him lying there...
But I hit a wall.
Why does it seem like
every time things
are finally gonna be okay.
something terrible happens?
You don't know that it has.
Keep him close
to your heart. Peyton.
Get some sleep. okay?
You can sleep in the bedroom.
I'll stay out here tonight.
Has it ever once bothered
your conscious
that our entire relationship
is based on your lie?
When you were forced
to walk away
because of your so-called
injury.
I dropped out. too.
We both dropped out
to raise Nathan.
Don't rewrite history.
Oh. so you're the only one
who can play that game?
I thought I knew the man
I was choosing to spend
my life with.
The injury was real. Deb.
And. yes. I decided not
to rehab it. at first.
By the time I changed my mind.
it was too late.
I did it in service
of you and Nathan.
Now. I know how you'd hold it
against me for not telling you.
but did you ever think that
maybe I did it...
To protect you
from it all?
If that's what you need
to believe.
It's the truth.
The truth?
In this house?
What's all this?
Oh. sorry.
I didn't mean to wake you.
I wasn't asleep.
I hit the vending machines.
Hungry?
You should probably eat
something.
After my mom died. um.
my dad couldn't cook.
so we lived on frozen pizzas
for the longest time.
[ Chuckles ]
I could live on pizza.
He'd. um -- he'd buy
these cheese pizzas.
and then he'd put
his own toppings on --
pickles. bologna.
pineapple. whatever.
That's nasty.
No. actually.
they were really good.
I think he did it mostly
just to make me laugh.
You know. to help me forget
for a little bit.
[ Alarm beeps ]
[ Sighs ]
You ready?
No.
Let's go.
Morning.
Scrambled or fried?
What do you think?
I think nobody's gonna
be that hungry.
I'm glad you stood up
to royal the way you did. Deb.
I didn't mean to hurt Dan.
but this lying over the years
has gotten so tiresome.
I did what I thought I had to do
to save my son.
That's what we do.
I'm glad you spoke up.
Dan?
Son. you know. someday
you're gonna realize
I did you a favor.
Your daddy's gonna get
over this eventually.
But if you let history
repeat itself.
your son may not.
I'm going for a run.
Oh. well. I think I'll scramble
the eggs.
Yeah.
Listen. Nathan. uh...
Whatever you're
going through. um...
I'm sorry about your dad.
I understand
why he did it. grandpa.
He must have really loved you.
you know that?
Because anything seemed better
than disappointing you.
It's not him.
You did good.
I felt like my chest
was gonna explode.
[ Cellphone rings ]
Peyton's place?
Hey. it's me.
Hey. I was just dialing you.
That's freaky.
Well. it's good news.
Yeah. I know. I just got off
the phone with the coast guard.
They made contact with his boat.
He's fine.
[ Sighs ]
They found your dad.
He's okay.
Oh.
All right.
We're headed home.
Okay. I'm waiting.
Love you.
Love you. too. Bye.
Oh. my god.
That's -- wait.
What?
Um. my bracelet.
I must have left it
in the motel.
All right. Let's go.
Hey.
Grandma's making breakfast.
Show starts at 9:00.
You in?
Um. as fun as last night was.
i think I'm gonna pass.
You know. I've been thinking.
Now that you know the truth
about your dad.
you're free. right?
I mean. he's been lying to you
all this time.
You don't have to listen to him
anymore.
There's no more pressure.
Yeah. I wish
that were true.
What do you mean?
[ Sighs ]
My dad walked away.
and his father will never
forgive him for that.
I have to go back.
Nathan --
I have to beat him.
Haley.
It's the only way I'm ever
gonna be free of my dad.
It has to be in here.
Got it?
[ Crying ]
Hey. it's okay.
Everything's okay now.
okay?
Ow. ow.
Sorry. sorry.
Hair --
it's in your necklace.
Okay. okay.
There.
[ Laughs ]
Brooke.
What?
Brooke gave me
that necklace.
You know. we. um...
We probably
should get going.
Yeah.
Okay.
[ Breathes deeply ]
How's business. Keith?
It's pretty steady.
Good.
I know I rib you a lot. son.
but I hope you know I think
you're a good man.
That's great. dad.
First nice thing
you say to me.
and it's really
just a dig at Dan.
Please. can we just eat
our breakfast?
Dan. you forgot
to open your presents.
This is from
your dad and me.
Oh. okay.
What's this?
It's a quilt.
A lady in Orlando made it.
We still had all your old
basketball stuff.
and I just couldn't bring
myself to throw 'em out.
You see. son. you still have
a lot to be proud of.
It's almost over. Deb.
Thank god for that.
[ Sighs ]
Look. after all
that's happened.
I want to thank you for not
throwing gas on the fire.
You okay?
No. no. Dan. I'm not.
And we're not.
All this pretending
and lying.
I can't really hold it
against you.
Because I realized
all these years...
I've been doing it. too.
Look. Peyton --
don't.
It was stupid. okay?
You're with Brooke now.
Yeah.
We just --
we got carried away.
It didn't mean anything.
It didn't?
Of course it did.
Bye. sweetie.
See you later.